README.md, before:

# 🎉 Ekspensify - Your Personal Finance Buddy!

## **🚀 Overview**

Welcome to **Ekspensify**, your personal finance tracking app made with **Kotlin** and **Jetpack Compose**! This project is all about making financial management simple, fun, and stress-free. Whether you’re budgeting like a pro or just starting, **Ekspensify** helps you stay on top of your money! 💰✨

### **✨ Why I Built This**

I wanted a **clean, intuitive, and fun way** to track income and expenses. No more boring spreadsheets - just a smooth experience with a **beautiful UI, insightful analytics, and helpful budgeting tools**. This app is my solution to making finance tracking **enjoyable and effortless**! 🚀

## **🌟 Features**

- 📌 **Track Income & Expenses**: Effortlessly record and keep track of your income and expenses in real time.
- 🏷 **Categories for Income & Expenses**: Includes all standard categories and allows custom categories.
- 📩 **Automatic Tracking via SMS**: Detects transactions from SMS alerts and tracks them in pending transactions for review.
- 💰 **Budget Management**: Create budgets to limit spending and stay on track.
- 🔔 **Budget Alerts**: Get notified when you're approaching or exceeding your budget.
- 🎨 **Modern UI**: Built with **Jetpack Compose** for a sleek and intuitive user experience.
- 📊 **Dashboard & Analytics**: Break down expenses and income by category with visual insights.
- 🏦 **Multiple Account Tracking**: Manage and track finances separately for different bank accounts.
- ☁ **Cloud Storage:** Your transaction records are securely stored on the server, keeping them safe and accessible.
- 📄 **PDF & CSV Export**: Easily export transaction data for reporting and record-keeping.



## **🛠 Tech Stack**

- **Kotlin** – Used as the primary programming language for the app.
- **Jetpack Compose** – Used for building modern, declarative UI components.
- **MVVM Architecture** - Keeping code clean and maintainable.
- **Dagger Hilt** – Dependency injection framework to manage app dependencies efficiently.
- **Retrofit** – Used for making network requests and parsing API responses.
- **Firebase** – For analytics, performance monitoring, and crash reporting.
- **Google Credential Manager** – Manages authentication and credentials securely, including integration with Google accounts for sign-in.
- **Room Database** – Local database management for offline data storage.
- **OneSignal** – Push notifications service to engage users.
- **Coil** – For image loading and displaying in Compose-based UI.
- **Paging3** – For efficient paginated data retrieval and display in the UI.

## **📸 Screenshots**
<img src="ekspensify_preview.svg" alt="preview"/>

## **🔧 Installation & Setup**

This is a complete Android app that interacts with a backend server. While you can't fully run the app locally without the server (since it relies on server APIs), you can still use it for testing and experimentation.

### Setup Instructions:

- Clone the repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/memeusix/Ekspensify.git
    ```

- Open the project in **Android Studio**.
- **Build and run** the app.

<aside>
➡️

**Note**: You can explore and experiment with the app locally, though server-dependent features like network calls and Google auth will require the backend.

</aside>

## **🤝 Contributing**

Love this project? Want to make it even better? Feel free to **open issues, submit pull requests, or just drop feedback**! Let’s build something amazing together. 💡💻

## **📬 Let's Connect!**

Got feedback or ideas? Reach out to me! I’d love to hear from you. 🎉

- 📧 Email: team@ekspensify.in
- 💼 LinkedIn:  [Dilip Kumar | LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/dilipkumar264/)

Commit message:

play store link added in README.md

README.md, after:

# 🎉 Ekspensify - Your Personal Finance Buddy!

## **🚀 Overview**

Welcome to **Ekspensify**, your personal finance tracking app made with **Kotlin** and **Jetpack Compose**! This project is all about making financial management simple, fun, and stress-free. Whether you’re budgeting like a pro or just starting, **Ekspensify** helps you stay on top of your money! 💰✨

### **✨ Why I Built This**

I wanted a **clean, intuitive, and fun way** to track income and expenses. No more boring spreadsheets - just a smooth experience with a **beautiful UI, insightful analytics, and helpful budgeting tools**. This app is my solution to making finance tracking **enjoyable and effortless**! 🚀

## **🌟 Features**

- 📌 **Track Income & Expenses**: Effortlessly record and keep track of your income and expenses in real time.
- 🏷 **Categories for Income & Expenses**: Includes all standard categories and allows custom categories.
- 📩 **Automatic Tracking via SMS**: Detects transactions from SMS alerts and tracks them in pending transactions for review.
- 💰 **Budget Management**: Create budgets to limit spending and stay on track.
- 🔔 **Budget Alerts**: Get notified when you're approaching or exceeding your budget.
- 🎨 **Modern UI**: Built with **Jetpack Compose** for a sleek and intuitive user experience.
- 📊 **Dashboard & Analytics**: Break down expenses and income by category with visual insights.
- 🏦 **Multiple Account Tracking**: Manage and track finances separately for different bank accounts.
- ☁ **Cloud Storage:** Your transaction records are securely stored on the server, keeping them safe and accessible.
- 📄 **PDF & CSV Export**: Easily export transaction data for reporting and record-keeping.

## **🎉 Download the App**

You can get the latest version of the app from the Google Play Store:

**✨ Latest Version:** 1.0

[<img src="https://play.google.com/intl/en_us/badges/static/images/badges/en_badge_web_generic.png" alt="Get it on Google Play" height="80"/>](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.memeusix.ekspensify)


## **🛠 Tech Stack**

- **Kotlin** – Used as the primary programming language for the app.
- **Jetpack Compose** – Used for building modern, declarative UI components.
- **MVVM Architecture** - Keeping code clean and maintainable.
- **Dagger Hilt** – Dependency injection framework to manage app dependencies efficiently.
- **Retrofit** – Used for making network requests and parsing API responses.
- **Firebase** – For analytics, performance monitoring, and crash reporting.
- **Google Credential Manager** – Manages authentication and credentials securely, including integration with Google accounts for sign-in.
- **Room Database** – Local database management for offline data storage.
- **OneSignal** – Push notifications service to engage users.
- **Coil** – For image loading and displaying in Compose-based UI.
- **Paging3** – For efficient paginated data retrieval and display in the UI.

## **📸 Screenshots**
<img src="ekspensify_preview.svg" alt="preview"/>

## **🔧 Installation & Setup**

This is a complete Android app that interacts with a backend server. While you can't fully run the app locally without the server (since it relies on server APIs), you can still use it for testing and experimentation.

### Setup Instructions:

- Clone the repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/memeusix/Ekspensify.git
    ```

- Open the project in **Android Studio**.
- **Build and run** the app.

<aside>
➡️

**Note**: You can explore and experiment with the app locally, though server-dependent features like network calls and Google auth will require the backend.

</aside>

## **🤝 Contributing**

Love this project? Want to make it even better? Feel free to **open issues, submit pull requests, or just drop feedback**! Let’s build something amazing together. 💡💻

## **📬 Let's Connect!**

Got feedback or ideas? Reach out to me! I’d love to hear from you. 🎉

- 📧 Email: team@ekspensify.in
- 💼 LinkedIn:  [Dilip Kumar | LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/dilipkumar264/)
